In the previous lesson we've filled the users and questions table using model factories and database seeding.
Now in this lesson we're going to continue our project and building new feature - displaying all questions
from our database to our application's view.
All right
as allways before we step any further, let's isolate our work today in new branch
let's head over to our terminal,
and here we can say
git checkout -b
and then the branch name will be lesson-4.
now it says
Switched to new branch 'lesson-4'
All right
firstly let's define new route for our new feature
So let's go to our editor
go to routes folder
and open web.php
Here
let's define a new route by saying route and because we will not only displaying questions but
also, creating, editing, updating, deleting and showing question so here we call resource
than the uri will be `questions`
and it will be handled to Questions Controller.
OK next let's create this Questions Controller. Head over to our terminal, and type: php artisan
make:controller and then the controller name will be Questions Controller. And we can add --resource
to tell artisan to generate resource operations in the controller. And we can also specify resource model
or the model that will be used in this controller by adding model flag
and then model name `Question`
in this case. Hit return.
Yeah it should be in singular.
So I'll hit ctrl+c. And then this should be a question. Hit return.
OK
Now lets's open
The Questions Controller
and here we have resource oprations or resource methods definition because we added
`resource` flag in the command. On the top
we can see the `Question` model namespace automatically imported and we can see
in show edit update and destroy methods methods is type-hinted to Question model instance. For now
let's modify the `index` method
let's define a variable to hold questions questions equals here, instead of displaying
all questions we'll limit the questions using `paginate` method.
So question paginate
and for now let's display 5 questions per page
And we'll also need to show the latest question first.
So let's call latest
and then here we will return a view
let's say `questions.index` and we need to pass the questions variable that holds all questions so that
it will be available in `qustions.index` view
so compact and then `questions`.
Alright, let's go to resources
views folder. And in here, let's create new folder
the folder will be `questions` as we defined in here. Then instead this questions folder let's create a new
file
it will be index.blade.php as we defined in here index.
All right
And for the content
Let's open the home
blade php let's select everything
Copy
and paste in this index blade php.
OK let's make some changes
The first one is to modify this `card-header`
Let's change it to `All Questions`
remove everything inside `card-body`
and here we will iterate all questions
So foreach
questions
as question
and close the foreach with endforeach like so
in here we'll show each question in bootstrap media class so div class `media`
and inside this we need to define another div `media-body`
and inside this media-body let's define heading 3 let's specify class
`mt-0` to make sure there's no margin top
and the text will be
Question title question title.
below that let's show a fragment of the question body
by calling
laravel str_limit helper function
pass in the question body in
and specify the length
OK and here I'll place a horizontal rule
and outside foreach loop
let's show the pagination links by saying
questions and than call `links` method like so
OK
Let's  save all changes
and see in our browser.
Actually I'll start up my server
php artisan serve
and here we can enter localhost colon eight thousand slash questions.
All right
here we have all questions appear
also we have pagination links on the buttom
we can jump to next page by hitting this button
and we can go back to previous page of course.
and here I want to make this wider.
so here I'll change to col-md-12 and it should be good.
All right.
here I think this pagination needs to be placed to center, right?
so let's go back to our editor. And in here let's define a div
and it's class and let's try bootstrap class `text-center`
like so
and save the change and let's see.
Apparently it's not working.
So let's try another bootstrap class
mx-auto and let's see again.
And it's also not working.
Let's go to bootstrap homepage.
getbootstrap.com
click the documentation menu
and here let's seach pagination
OK here let's click this `Alignment` menu
and here we can change the alignment of the pagination using
flexbox utilities.
so basically we need to add this `justify-content-center` in our pagination markup.
But as you can see in here we only call `links` method to generate the pagination.
So how can we do that?
Luckily start form laravel version 5.3
we can custom pagination view easily.
To do that
let's head over to our terminal
I'll open new tab
And here we can type php artisan vendor colon publish specify the `tag` flag, and the tag will be
`laravel-pagination`. Hit return.
Now if we go to `views`, we'll find a new folder vendor pagination
inside this folder we'll find several files, and all we need to do is open up the `bootstrap4.blade.php`, because since
version 5.6 laravel using bootstrap version 4 by default
OK here we simply add a new class in this ul tag.
So `justify-content-center`. Save the changes and reload the page. OK
now we have our pagination placing in the center.
and I think that's enought for this lesson
we'll be adding author info as well as question creation date on question item in the next lesson.
and here let's save our work to our repo
git add all git commit -m and I'll say Display
all questions
I'll push my current branch to
remote repo git push origin lesson-4. Alright
we can switch to our master branch git
Check out master.
now we're in master branch. So let's merge this to
lesson-4 branch git merge lesson-4 git push origin master. And last push our master branch to remote repo git push origin
master
Alright join me in the next lesson.